.\" Copyright (c) 2016, Niko Kiiskinen
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)lol.3 0.30 16/12/16
.\"
.\" Modified, niko, 2017-01-28
.\"
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH lol 3 "16 December 2016" "LOLFS v0.30" "Lolfs Package Manual"
.SH "NAME"
lol \- execute lolfs commands
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.SY lol
.OP \-hv
.OP \fIFUNCTION\fR
.RI [ \fIARGUMENTS\fR
.IR .\|.\|. ]
.YS
.\" [\fIFUNCTION\fR] [\fIARGUMENTS\fR]...
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B lol
command is an interface to create and access lolfs containers.
The
.B lol
command is followed by a \fIfunction\fP and it's \fIarguments\fP.
.P
These
.I functions
can:
.br 
.RS
\(bu create a new container.
.RE
.RS
\(bu resize an existing container.
.RE
.RS
\(bu copy files between computer and container.
.RE
.RS
\(bu See the other functions below...
.RE
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-v \-\-version
Shows program version. Every
.I function
executed by
.B lol
also has this option separately.
.TP
.B \-h \-\-help
Shows a list of
.I functions
that can be executed. Each
.I function
has also this option separately.
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
.TP
.B cat
Prints a file which is inside a
.B lolfs
container to
.I standard output.
See example below.
.TP
.B cc
Checks a lolfs container for errors.
.TP
.B cp
Copies files to and from a lolfs container.
.TP
.B df
Shows used and available space in a container.
.TP
.B fs
Creates a lolfs container. See example below.
.TP
.B ls
Lists files inside a lolfs container.
.TP
.B rm
Deletes file(s) inside a container.
.TP
.B rs
Allocates more space to a container. If a container
becomes full or almost full, use this command to
resize it.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
lol cc \-\-help
.IP
Shows information about the 'lol cc' command.
.TP
lol fs \-s 150M my.db
.IP
Creates a lolfs container 'my.db' which has 150 Megabytes
of storage capacity. You may also fine tune your container
by choosing the data block size and number of data blocks
like:
.TP
lol fs \-b 512 10000 my.db
.IP
This creates a container 'my.db' which has 10000 data blocks,
each 512 bytes.
.TP
lol ls my.db
.IP
List files in 'my.db' container.
.TP
lol cp *.txt my.db
.IP
Copies all text files into 'my.db'.
.TP
lol cp my.db:/memo.txt files
.IP
Copies the file 'memo.txt' from the container 'my.db' to
directory 'files'.
.TP
lol cp my.db:/face.jpg backup.db
.IP
Copies the file 'face.jpg' from the container 'my.db' to
container 'backup.db'.
.TP
lol cat my.db:/memo.txt
.IP
Prints the file 'memo.txt' which is inside a container 'my.db' to
.I standard output.
.TP
lol rs \-b 10000 my.db
.IP
Allocates 10000 more data blocks to 'my.db'.
.TP
lol rs \-s 300M my.db
.IP
Allocates additional 300 Megabytes to 'my.db'.
.TP
lol rm my.db:/mother_in_law.jpg
.IP
Deletes a file from 'my.db'.
.TP
lol df my.db
.IP
Shows free and used space in 'my.db' container.
.TP
lol cc my.db
.IP
Checks container 'my.db' for errors.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
Not implemented.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
The
.B lol
program and all of it's functions return 0 after
succesful execution. Otherwise return value is < 0.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by
.MT lolfs.bugs@\:gmail.com
Niko Kiiskinen.
.ME
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mkfs.lolfs(3),
.BR fsck.lolfs(3).
.PP
The full documentation for
.B lol
related commands and
.B
C API
is maintained as man manual pages. If
.B lolfs
package is properly installed at your site.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2015, 2016 Niko Kiiskinen.
.BR
.PP
License GNU GPL version 2 or later.
.URL https://\:www.gnu.org/\:licenses
.BR
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "COLOPHON"
This page is part of release 0.30 of the lolfs project
man-pages. The website of the project and the latest version,
can be found at Github:
.URL https://\:nkiiskin.github.io/\:lolfs
