.\" Copyright (c) 2016, Niko Kiiskinen
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)lol.5 0.13 16/12/16
.\"
.\" Modified, niko, 2016-12-16
.\"
.TH "lol" "5" "2016-12-16" "LOLFS v0.13" "Lolfs Package Manual"
.SH "NAME"
lol \- execute lolfs commands
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B lol
[\fIFUNCTION\fR] [\fIARGUMENTS\fR]...
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
'lol' command creates a lolfs container, copies files to and
from it. It can also delete files, list files inside a container,
show available space in a container and resize a container.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-v --version
Shows lolfs version. Every lol command executed by lol has
this option also.
.TP
.B \-h --help
Shows a list of commands that can be executed. Every one of
these commands has also this option to receive more information
about each command.
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
.TP
.B \ cat
Prints a file which is inside a lolfs container to
.I standard output.
See example below.
.TP
.B \ cc
Checks a lolfs container for errors.
.TP
.B \ cp
Copies files to and from a lolfs container.
.TP
.B \ df
Shows used and available space in a container.
.TP
.B \ fs
Creates a lolfs container. See example below.
.TP
.B \ ls
Lists files inside a lolfs container.
.TP
.B \ rm
Deletes file(s) inside a container.
.TP
.B \ rs
Allocates more space to a container. If a container
becomes full or almost full, use this command to
resize it.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
lol \ cc --help
.IP
Shows information about the 'lol cc' command.
.TP
lol \ fs 400 50000 my.db
.IP
Creates a lolfs container 'my.db' which has 50000
data blocks, each 400 bytes. So, this container can
store about 20 Megabytes of data.
.TP
lol \ ls my.db
.IP
List files in 'my.db' container.
.TP
lol \ cp *.txt my.db
.IP
Copies all text files into 'my.db'.
.TP
lol \ cat my.db:/memo.txt
.IP
Prints the file 'memo.txt' which is inside a container 'my.db' to
.I standard output.
.TP
lol \ rs -b 10000 my.db
.IP
Allocates 10000 more data blocks to 'my.db'.
.TP
lol \ rs -s 300M my.db
.IP
Allocates additional 300 Megabytes to 'my.db'.
.TP
lol \ rm my.db:/mother_in_law.jpg
.IP
Deletes a file from 'my.db'.
.TP
lol \ df my.db
.IP
Shows free and used space in 'my.db' container.
.TP
lol \ cc my.db
.IP
Checks container 'my.db' for errors.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
Not implemented.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
The
.B lol
program and all of it's functions return 0 after
succesfull execution. Otherwise return value is < 0.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Niko Kiiskinen.
.SH "BUGS"
Report bugs to <\%nkiiskin@yahoo.com\%>.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2015, 2016 Niko Kiiskinen.
.BR
.PP
License: GNU GPL version 2 or later. <\%https://www.gnu.org/licenses\%>.
.BR
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mkfs.lolfs(5),
.BR fsck.lolfs(5).
.PP
The full documentation for
.B lol
related commands and
.B
C API
is maintained as man manual pages. If
.B lolfs
package is properly installed at your site.
.SH "COLOPHON"
This page is part of release 0.13 of the lolfs project
man-pages. The website of the project and the latest vaersion,
can be found at
\%https://nkiiskin.github.io/lolfs\%
