.\" Copyright (c) 2016, Niko Kiiskinen
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)lol_ftell.3 0.13 23/12/16
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Dec 23 21:27:02 2016 by Niko <nkiiskin@yahoo.com>
.\"
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH "lol_ftell" "3" "23 December 2016" "LOLFS v0.13" "Lolfs Package Manual"
.SH "NAME"
lol_ftell \- obtain current value of the file position
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <lolfs.h>
.sp
.BI "long lol_ftell(lol_FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.BR lol_ftell
obtains the current value of the file position
indicator for the stream pointed to by
.IR stream .
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.BR lol_ftell
returns the current offset in the
.IR stream .
Otherwise, \-1 is returned and
.I lol_errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
The
.I stream
specified is not a seekable stream.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by
.MT nkiiskin@\:yahoo.com
Niko Kiiskinen.
.ME
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lol_fseek(3),
.BR lol_feof(3),
.BR lol_ferror(3)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2015, 2016 Niko Kiiskinen.
.BR
.PP
License GNU GPL version 2 or later.
.URL https://\:www.gnu.org/\:licenses
.BR
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "COLOPHON"
This page is part of release 0.13 of the lolfs project
man-pages. The website of the project and the latest version,
can be found at
.URL https://\:nkiiskin.github.io/\:lolfs
