.\" Copyright (c) 2016, Niko Kiiskinen
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)lol_fclose.5 0.13 11/12/16
.\"
.\" Modified, niko, 2016-12-16
.\"
.TH "lol_fclose" "5" "2016-11-12" "LOLFS v0.13" "Lolfs Package Manual"
.SH "NAME"
lol_fclose \- close a lol stream
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <lolfs.h>
.sp
.BI "int fclose(lol_FILE *" stream );
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.BR lol_fclose
function closes the stream pointed to by
.I stream
opened by
.BR lol_fopen(5).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion 0 is returned.
Otherwise,
.B EOF
is returned.
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
The
.BR lol_fclose
function may fail, in which case
.I lol_ferror(5)
returns the error code.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Niko Kiiskinen.
.SH "BUGS"
Report bugs to <\%nkiiskin@yahoo.com\%>.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2015, 2016 Niko Kiiskinen.
.BR
.PP
License: GNU GPL version 2 or later. <\%https://www.gnu.org/licenses\%>.
.BR
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lol_fopen(5),
.BR lol_ferror(5)
.SH "COLOPHON"
This page is part of release 0.13 of the lolfs project
man-pages. The website of the project and the latest vaersion,
can be found at
\%https://nkiiskin.github.io/lolfs\%
