.\" Copyright (c) 2016, Niko Kiiskinen
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)lol_ferror.3 0.30 11/12/17
.\"
.\" Modified, niko, 2016-12-17
.\"
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH "lol_ferror" "3" "17 December 2016" "LOLFS v0.30" "Lolfs Package Manual"
.SH "NAME"
lol_ferror \- tests the error indicator for the stream
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <lolfs.h>
.sp
.BI "int lol_ferror(lol_FILE *" stream );
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The function
.BR lol_ferror
tests the error indicator for the
.I stream
opened by
.BR lol_fopen(3),
returning nonzero if it is set. The error indicator can be reset
only by the
.BR lol_clearerr(3)
function.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns the error code associated with the
.I stream
\- 0, in case there is no error.
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
This function should not fail and does not set the external variable
.I lol_errno.
(However, in case its argument is not a valid stream,
it will return -1 and set
.I lol_errno
to \fBEBADF\fP.)
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by
.MT lolfs.bugs@\:gmail.com
Niko Kiiskinen.
.ME
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lol_feof(3),
.BR lol_clearerr(3)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2015, 2016 Niko Kiiskinen.
.BR
.PP
License GNU GPL version 2 or later.
.URL https://\:www.gnu.org/\:licenses
.BR
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "COLOPHON"
This page is part of release 0.30 of the lolfs project
man-pages. The website of the project and the latest version,
can be found at
.URL https://\:nkiiskin.github.io/\:lolfs
.\"\%https://nkiiskin.github.io/lolfs\%
