.\" Copyright (c) 2016, Niko Kiiskinen
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)lol_fwrite.3 0.30 23/12/16
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Dec 23 20:51:18 2016 by Niko <lolfs.bugs@gmail.com>
.\"
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH "lol_fwrite" "3" "23 December 2016" "LOLFS v0.30" "Lolfs Package Manual"
.SH "NAME"
lol_fwrite \- write to lolfs stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <lolfs.h>
.sp
.BI "size_t lol_fwrite(const void *" ptr ", size_t " size ", size_t " nmemb ,
.BI "                  lol_FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.BR lol_fwrite
writes
.I nmemb
items of data, each
.I size
bytes long, to the stream pointed to by
.IR stream ,
obtaining them from the location given by
.IR ptr .
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR lol_fwrite
returns the number of items \- each
.I size
bytes long \- written to the
.I stream.
If an error occurs, the return value is
a short item count (or zero).
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by
.MT lolfs.bugs@\:gmail.com
Niko Kiiskinen.
.ME
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lol_fopen(3),
.BR lol_fread(3),
.BR lol_feof(3),
.BR lol_ferror(3)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2015, 2016 Niko Kiiskinen.
.BR
.PP
License GNU GPL version 2 or later.
.URL https://\:www.gnu.org/\:licenses
.BR
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "COLOPHON"
This page is part of release 0.30 of the lolfs project
man-pages. The website of the project and the latest version,
can be found at
.URL https://\:nkiiskin.github.io/\:lolfs
