.\" Copyright (c) 2016, Niko Kiiskinen
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)lol_fseek.3 0.20 11/12/18
.\"
.\" Modified, niko, 2016-12-18
.\"
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH "lol_fseek" "3" "18 December 2016" "LOLFS v0.20" "Lolfs Package Manual"
.SH "NAME"
lol_fseek \- sets the file position for the stream
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <lolfs.h>
.sp
.BI "int lol_fseek(lol_FILE *" stream ", long " offset ", int " whence );
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.BR lol_fseek
function sets the file position indicator for the stream pointed to by
.IR stream .
The new position, measured in bytes, is obtained by adding
.I offset
bytes to the position specified by
.IR whence .
If
.I whence
is set to
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_CUR ,
or
.BR SEEK_END ,
the offset is relative to the start of the file, the current position
indicator, or end-of-file, respectively.
A successful call to the
.BR lol_fseek
function clears the end-of-file indicator for the stream.
.PP
The current value of the file position indicator for the
.I stream,
can be obtained by
.BR lol_ftell(3)
function.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
.B lol_fseek
returns 0. Otherwise, -1 is returned and
.I lol_errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "ERRORS"
.TP
.B EBADF
The
.I stream
specified is not a seekable lolfs stream.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The
.I whence
argument to
.BR fseek
was not
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_END ,
or
.BR SEEK_CUR .
Or: the resulting file offset would be negative.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by
.MT lolfs.bugs@\:gmail.com
Niko Kiiskinen.
.ME
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lol_ftell(3) ,
.BR lol_feof(3) ,
.BR lol_ferror(3) ,
.BR lol_clearerr(3) .
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2015, 2016 Niko Kiiskinen.
.BR
.PP
License GNU GPL version 2 or later.
.URL https://\:www.gnu.org/\:licenses
.BR
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "COLOPHON"
This page is part of release 0.20 of the lolfs project
man-pages. The website of the project and the latest version,
can be found at
.URL https://\:nkiiskin.github.io/\:lolfs
.\"\%https://nkiiskin.github.io/lolfs\%
