.\" Copyright (c) 2016, Niko Kiiskinen
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)lol_fopen.3	0.13 11/07/16
.\"
.\" Modified, niko, 2016-12-17
.\"
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH "lol_fopen" "3" "17 December 2016" "LOLFS v0.13" "Lolfs Package Manual"
.SH "NAME"
lol_fopen \- open a file inside lolfs container
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <lolfs.h>
.sp
.BI "lol_FILE *lol_fopen(const char *" path ", const char *" mode );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
.in
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.BR lol_fopen
function opens the file inside a lolfs container whose name
is the string pointed to by
.I path
and associates a stream with it. The
.I path
must include both the name of the container and
the name of the file inside it. See example below.
.PP
The argument
.I mode
points to a string beginning with one of the following sequences
(possibly followed by additional characters, as described below):
.TP
.B r
Open file for reading.
The stream is positioned at the beginning of the file.
.TP
.B r+
Open for reading and writing.
The stream is positioned at the beginning of the file.
.TP
.B w
Truncate file to zero length or create text file for writing.
The stream is positioned at the beginning of the file.
.TP
.B w+
Open for reading and writing.
The file is created if it does not exist, otherwise it is truncated.
The stream is positioned at the beginning of
the file.
.TP
.B a
Open for appending (writing at end of file).
The file is created if it does not exist.
The stream is positioned at the end of the file.
.TP
.B a+
Open for reading and appending (writing at end of file).
The file is created if it does not exist.
The initial file position for reading is at the beginning of the file,
but output is always appended to the end of the file.
.PP
The
.I mode
string can also include the letter \(aqb\(aq either as a last character or as
a character between the characters in any of the two-character strings
described above.
This is strictly for compatibility with C89
and has no effect; the \(aqb\(aq is ignored on all POSIX
conforming systems, including Linux.
.PP
See EXAMPLE below for details for
.IR path .
.PP
.nf
.fi
.PP
The
.I mode
of the lol stream is one of the values "r", "r+", "w", "w+", "a", "a+"
with a possible combination with "b", like "rb" or "wb" etc.
.I mode
argument is used just as in the
.BR fopen
function with exception that path must include
the container file and the filename inside the
container like:
.I "container:/filename"
.SH "EXAMPLE"
lol_FILE *fp;
.sp
fp = lol_fopen("my.db:/README.txt", "r");
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion
.BR lol_fopen
returns a
.I lol_FILE
pointer.
Otherwise,
.I NULL
is returned.
.PP
Thread safety: Not thread safe as of v0.13.
.BR lol_fopen
limits the number of characters examined in
.I mode
to 4
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Niko Kiiskinen.
.SH "BUGS"
Report bugs to
.MT nkiiskin@\:yahoo.com
Niko Kiiskinen,
.ME
thank you!.
.BR
.PP
License GNU GPL version 2 or later.
.URL https://\:www.gnu.org/\:licenses
.BR
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lol_fclose(3),
.BR lol_ferror(3)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2015, 2016 Niko Kiiskinen.
.SH "COLOPHON"
This page is part of release 0.13 of the lolfs project
man-pages. The website of the project and the latest vaersion,
can be found at
.URL https://\:nkiiskin.github.io/\:lolfs
.\"\%https://nkiiskin.github.io/lolfs\%
