.\" Copyright (c) 2016, Niko Kiiskinen
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)lol_feof.3 0.13 11/12/18
.\"
.\" Modified, niko, 2016-12-18
.\"
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH "lol_feof" "3" "18 December 2016" "LOLFS v0.13" "Lolfs Package Manual"
.SH "NAME"
lol_feof \- tests the end-of-file indicator for the stream
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <lolfs.h>
.sp
.BI "int lol_feof(lol_FILE *" stream );
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The function
.BR lol_feof
tests the end-of-file indicator for the stream
pointed to by
.I stream
, returning nonzero if it is set. The end-of-file
indicator can be cleared only by the
.B lol_clearerr(3)
function.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The function
.B lol_feof
returns the end-of-file indicator. If it is not
set, then it will return 0.
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
This function should fail only if its argument is
not a valid stream. Then it will return -1 and set
.I lol_errno
to \fBEBADF\fP.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by
.MT nkiiskin@\:yahoo.com
Niko Kiiskinen.
.ME
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lol_clearerr(3),
.BR lol_ferror(3)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2015, 2016 Niko Kiiskinen.
.BR
.PP
License GNU GPL version 2 or later.
.URL https://\:www.gnu.org/\:licenses
.BR
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "COLOPHON"
This page is part of release 0.13 of the lolfs project
man-pages. The website of the project and the latest version,
can be found at
.URL https://\:nkiiskin.github.io/\:lolfs
.\"\%https://nkiiskin.github.io/lolfs\%
