.\" Copyright (c) 2016, Niko Kiiskinen
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)lol_stat.3 0.30 24/12/16
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Dec 24 00:18:47 2016 by Niko <lolfs.bugs@gmail.com>
.\"
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH "lol_stat" "3" "24 December 2016" "LOLFS v0.30" "Lolfs Package Manual"
.SH "NAME"
lol_stat \- get file status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <lolfs.h>
.sp
.BI "int lol_stat(const char *" container:/file ", struct stat *" buf );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.BR lol_stat
returns information about a file, in the buffer pointed to by
.IR buf .
Execute permission is required on all of the directories in the
.I container
part of the full path to the
.IR file .
.PP
.BR lol_stat
fills the
.BR stat
structure given by
.IR buf .
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned. On error, \-1 is returned,
and
.I lol_errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied for one of the directories
in the container prefix of full
.IR container:/file .
.TP
.BR EBUSY
The status of the file pointed by
.I file
cannot be accessed because system is busy.
.TP
.B EFAULT
The name given by the pointer
.I container:/file
points outside accessible address space.
.TP
.B EIO
An I/O error occurred.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
The name of the container or file or combination of
both given in
.IR container:/file " was too long, too short or empty."
.TP
.B ENOENT
A component in
.I container:/file
does not exist or is an empty string.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory was available.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following program calls
.BR lol_stat
and displays selected fields in the returned
.I stat
structure.
.PP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/stat.h>
#include <time.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <lolfs.h>
.PP
int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
  struct stat sb;
  if (argc != 2) {
     fprintf(stderr,
             "Usage: %s <container:/file>\\n", argv[0]);
        return -1;
  }
  if (\fBlol_stat\fP(\fIargv[1]\fP, \fI&sb\fP)) {
      fprintf(stderr,
              "cannot get status of %s\\n", argv[1]);
      return -1;
  }
  printf("I\-node number:            %ld\\n", (long) sb.st_ino);
  printf("Mode:                     %lo (octal)\\n",
          (unsigned long) sb.st_mode);
  printf("Preferred I/O block size: %ld bytes\\n",
          (long)sb.st_blksize);
  printf("File size:                %lld bytes\\n",
          (long long)sb.st_size);
  printf("Blocks allocated:         %lld\\n",
          (long long)sb.st_blocks);
  printf("Last status change:       %s", ctime(&sb.st_ctime));
  return 0;
}
.fi
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by
.MT lolfs.bugs@\:gmail.com
Niko Kiiskinen.
.ME
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lol(3),
.BR stat(2)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2015, 2016 Niko Kiiskinen.
.BR
.PP
License GNU GPL version 2 or later.
.URL https://\:www.gnu.org/\:licenses
.BR
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "COLOPHON"
This page is part of release 0.30 of the lolfs project
man-pages. The website of the project and the latest version,
can be found at
.URL https://\:nkiiskin.github.io/\:lolfs
